Claude Swanson didn't find what he was looking for
as he worked his way through his bachelor
of science and physics at MIT and later,
his doctorate in physics at Princeton.
There were simply too many questions
regarding energy dynamics, paranormal experience,
and more that could not be addressed through
the standard scientific model.
He began looking to ancient cycles of consciousness
and the science of remote viewing to prove
that we can indeed bridge the worlds
of science and spirituality.
Claude says that some of what we now call
the new sciences, in fact, closely resemble
what was once referred to in ancient cultures as magic.
You talked about a Hopi glyph in which
the western man is separated, his head is separated
from his body.
Can you make comment on what that means?
It's kind of obvious, but your comments?
Well the Hopi interpretation of that is that
the body basically represents our physical relationship
to the world, the things we create that are physical.
The head is the wisdom, and basically the head
and the body are not communicating.
So the wisdom is not really communicating
with what we're doing physically in the world,
and their interpretation really is that we're not open
to the spiritual wisdom that we really need
for guidance in making wise decisions.
So we're kind of going along in automatic mode
making what we call rational decisions
without listening to spirit.
What they show in their timeline is several catastrophes,
World War one and two, and a future World War three,
basically some very rough things ahead
if we don't wake up and make that reconnection
between the physical body and the spiritual wisdom.
So that's where we are right now,
and you can look at the environment around
and see all these things that are going on if we don't,
you know global warming and everything else.
So we need to wake up.
That's what they're saying.
And that's what conferences
like these are about,
and this is a particularly exceptional one.
And what I find is just the change from
last year's conference to this is there is
a big bump up in linking consciousness
and spiritual elements of life to science,
even more so than last year by quite a bit,
and it's interesting because you are very
heavily credentialed in the sciences.
I mean MIT, but I heard you comment that
the information was too limited.
Yeah, there's a real sense in the way we do science.
It's part of the problem.
That our educational system tends to encourage
and reward conformity in thinking.
The students that are really good at memorizing,
learning the rules, doing the calculations
the way they were told, and kind of spitting it back,
you do well in school, get a good grade,
and you move up the ladder and
become the professor some day.
Which does not really encourage original thinking.
And I think in the past, when things weren't so organized,
there was probably more openness, more availability
for really creative thinking.
I mean Einstein was working in the patent office
when he came up with his great theories.
So I think there's kind of a factory mentality maybe
in our current science so that a lot of the people
who are doing science probably have forgotten
what it feels like, when you're on the forefront,
you're not getting confirmation.
You don't have that warm fuzzy from your colleagues.
That's right.
You're out there in the cold by yourself.
And that's really what it's gonna take
to shift the paradigm.
Right, right.
And you really have done some groundbreaking work
because you've jumped from one side
back to the other and back.
You've really seemed to be able to traverse
those worlds really well,
and you've even done training in remote viewing
and you've very successfully done this yourself.
And this gets into some of the awakenings
of potential we're talking about.
Do you want to comment on that
and you can take as much time as you like.
Well I got into science in the first place
because of curiosity.
I wanted to understand how the universe works.
That's what got me in.
So I didn't want to take any easy superficial answers.
I wanted to have a feeling that what I understood
was the truth, and that's what I was looking for in science.
And so when you have that attitude,
you can kind of get a sense sometimes
when the answer is facile.
If someone does an experiment and then afterwards,
they cobble together a mathematical theory
that'll give the results of that experiment,
that's not really an explanation.
We can always do curve fitting and explain things that way,
but it's not a deep understanding.
One thing that made Einstein...
The complexity's missing.
Yeah and that intuition.
I mean one thing that made Einstein so special
is he had one or two core deep principles
that he thought of, like in spatial relativity.
The idea was light is always constant in
the frame of motion which you're in.
And there's no way to tell which frame is special.
They're all equal in a way.
And now we're kind of learning, 100 years later,
that maybe that's not quite right,
that maybe there is an ether and maybe relativity's
not quite as right as we thought,
but it worked very well in a lot of ways,
and it was basically two intuitive ideas
not on curve fitting.
And I think that a lot of our physics today is missing that.
So I think intuition and that whole psychic part,
the intuitive part, the gut feeling is a big part of science
that people are not being taught in school.
And genuine curiosity?
And genuine curiosity, exactly.
A drive to get the answer, find out what it is.
And for me, what I was searching,
and then in the mid-eighties, I came across
remote viewing and a couple other phenomena
that I could not dismiss.
They violated the physics that I had learned in school
and I couldn't dismiss them, but at the same time,
I couldn't explain them because they weren't
anything I had ever encountered before
and our physics can't understand this stuff.
So if you can't beat 'em, join 'em?
Well, but I understand that period,
I went through a period of months, maybe a year or two,
my brain was boggled.
It's like having these two contradictory ideas
at the same time and you can't decide
how to fit them together.
And that's really what started me on looking
at all the different phenomena that
our society considers to be anomalous,
that our society makes fun of, we ridicule,
we don't talk about them in the polite evening news,
and I began trying to figure out,
if these things are real, then what else is real
and let me just find out from a very serious,
rigorous, independent investigation.
So that's where I started, going to conferences,
reading the papers, talking to the researchers,
and I was always skeptical.
I mean, I was always ready and expecting them to be
fooling me and things like that
or just being flakes or nuts
Madame Zelda.
Yeah, people with their propeller heads
or aluminum foil, or something like that.
The media prepares us for that,
and I was amazed how many people are
really solid, really credible, high integrity, intelligent.
So anyway, that's some of how it got started.
I started off with one or two ideas that I felt
had to be included in current science.
When I got finished, there were like 47 chapters
of data on different types of phenomena
that really our science needs to be able to understand.
So it's a real deep revolution, I think, that...
I think so too
and one of the things you talk about here,
which is interesting is that the new sciences
are resembling the magic that's spoken of in legends.
Right.
You know, it's so interesting when you look at
what the movies that are popular today.
Harry Potter, look what a splash he's been.
Look at Lord of the Rings, the trilogy,
and the book before the movie, you know?
And to me, you say okay there's magic in both those,
but are they appealing to something deeper?
Is there something deep inside us that recognizes
or remembers something that was real, that was true?
And I don't know.
That's not an answer, but it's a suspicion,
like what is it that makes those things so appealing to us?
And it's just kind of interesting that
our science is beginning to learn
how some of those things might work.
We have a Qigong master who's in China,
these men who learn how to manipulate the Qi,
the subtle energy in the body, both for healing,
and also for fighting martial arts,
for thousands of years, have used this energy.
And there are Qigong masters who don't have
to hit you to knock you down.
They do a motion like that...
I've been knocked over by one.
Well see?
Through a wall.
Well I want to talk to you about that later on
because I'm looking for good Qigong masters who can do that.
But I know it happens.
I've read the stories.
I've talked to some of the researchers,
and I know it's real.
And that's a type of energy that you see in the jedi knights
in the fantasy Star Wars movies,
Very real.
but it's real and there are people who really do this.
Take the magic wand of Harry Potter for example.
But if you start to do research on the subtle energy,
you find that you really can collect it.
You can build up a charge of subtle energy in a crystal
or in a piece of wood.
And I suspect that we're starting to understand
how some of these magical things from the past,
how maybe we can reproduce them in the laboratory.
So I think we're on the edge of something
kind of interesting here.
Speaking of age of something interesting,
you talk about how ESP, basically psychic phenomena
works better with certain galactic alignments for example.
Can you talk about that a bit because
that gets back to the conference of CPAC and recession.
Right, yeah, well Dr. James Spottiswoode,
who is a statistician, did a lot of work on
the accuracy of different remote viewing experiments
and ESP experiments, taking data from
many hundreds of different cases,
different times of day, different places in the world,
and was looking for some correlation.
What is it that makes remote viewing or ESP
more accurate or less accurate?
And the one result he came up with,
the strongest effect, is what the astronomers call
sidereal time, which is star time.
In other words, when certain stars are overhead,
that's when, as a receiver, ESP is about four times
more accurate than average.
This is a very rigorous result.
The question is why.
And we don't have a certain answer for that,
but it turns out that reception is most accurate
when the constellation virgo is overhead,
the last two stars in the handle of the big dipper
are overhead.
That is 13.5 hours sidereal, which is what
astronomers would call it,
and that works daytime or nighttime.
It doesn't matter.
You don't have to be able to see it
for it to have an effect.
It just so happens that that is the time
when a very anomalous region of the sky
called the great attractor is overhead.
This is an area where a lot of dark matter
and dark energy is found today.
And there have been theories, there are theories,
that there may be certain types of particles, perhaps,
or types of radiation that are coming from there,
certain types of anomalies that may be associated
with that dark matter.
Whatever it is, we know that our psychic ability
is more accurate and more clear during that time.
Does it have anything to do with,
say raising our gamma range of frequencies?
Or does it, I don't know...
I don't know.
I don't think so.
Yeah I'm just curious.
I think the people...
What I suspect is that for some reason,
well I don't know.
Yeah okay, that's just out of the blue,
But it's an observation,
but what was interesting to me was that
since it's based on a certain part of the sky
that's affecting us, therefore when the Earth is
at that angle where that part is overhead,
that's the best time, what would happen
if we are in one of these binary star systems?
That there is some kind of long period cycle,
26,000, 24,000 years, what that would mean is
that part of that orbit, we're going towards this region,
during part we're moving away from that region.
So you might expect a doppler shift.
You might expect a frequency shift going toward
or going away from that might modulate
the strength of that effect.
So that was the suggestion, and right now,
it's just a suggestion.
We don't really know, but...
Whatever it is, it seems to be working.
But if there is something to these cycles,
the yuga cycles, the cycles of the ages,
then this would be a possible model
that might explain it, so...
And this is going to have
an effect on everybody, not just the few that can,
like this man you talked about, Zhang,
the Chinese subject who was able to...
Teleport, yes
teleport, and how did that work
with that sack of sugar?
Yeah, well Paul Dong, who is a Chinese American,
and a Qigong master, himself, has spent a lot
of time in China and interviewed a lot of these healers
and psychics over there, done a lot of research,
written four books about it.
Back in the 80's, there was a period where
the Chinese government was more forthcoming
about what they were doing.
They were doing research on psychic phenomena
among Chinese.
They basically did a survey of their billion plus population
to find those who were the most powerful,
and they called them the EHF,
the extra-high functioning people,
and most of them were young people,
just because that's when
I was going
to say there was a whole
powers are usually greatest
Yeah exactly.
And some of them can do amazing things.
And he's written a book or two with examples,
but there was also a period of time where
VIP visitors to China would get demonstrations.
And I went to China in 79.
I was not enough of a VIP to get a private demonstration.
Darn, wouldn't you love to be there?
But I knew people who did.
I knew four people who independently got VIP demonstrations
with teleportation where they had a little radio transmitter
they put in somebody's pocket and they would have
one of these EHF people cause it to telport,
and meanwhile, there was a radio tracking device
to track this little thing.
The frequency would go down to zero
and then it would come back up again somewhere else.
And at that moment, it had appeared in
somebody else's pocket somewhere else.
Went to the zero point field.
Yeah it turns out that in quantum mechanics,
now our quantum mechanics can't explain this,
but it does have, there is some consistency,
because in quantum mechanics, when the frequency
goes very low, the position becomes very spread out.
So it's almost like it's becoming very spread out
and then reassembling again somewhere else.
Almost very diffuse in a way.
Yeah, exactly.
So there's a sense that this is probably true
with four different people reporting this,
Zhang has talked about it in one of Paul Dong's books.
He is considered to be a national treasure in China.
He's able to apparently cause teleportation of objects.
The story in Paul Dong's book says that
initially, he was pulled into a military project.
The general was very skeptical about his abilities.
So he had Zhang locked in a room,
put under military guard, and he drove home.
When he got home, Zhang was sitting there
in his living room waiting for him.
(laughter)
And Zhang became sort of famous in China.
He was given money and a luxury sports car
by a millionaire Chinese business man
who wanted to thank him for what he was doing,
and he would race around Hong Kong at breakneck speed
in this sports car.
He was given traffic tickets by the Hong Kong police
by the dozens.
After a while, they stopped because
they noticed whenever they got back
to their police station, the tickets had disappeared.
I was going to say I bet
he disappeared them, that's great.
Yeah, so he's kind of an institution there.
Wow, now that's an incentive
to start bumping it up a bit, isn't it?
Yeah, to practice these abilities.
One thing that I think has happened is
that the Chinese have realized that
there's a lot of military applications to these abilities,
and so they've become much quieter,
much harder to get information out
from what's going on over there.
And I think in this country too,
the remote viewing program is one thing...
I was going to say,
that's what I've read is some of these kids
are remote viewing positions for strategic...
Yeah, and so that one program became public,
but we can probably assume there are plenty
of other programs that aren't public, you know.
So it's always hard trying to do research in this area
because you have to work with whatever information
you can catch here and there.
You know there's probably a lot more that's not available.
Right, so as we progress along,
we could go off on a thousand different tangents
very easily here because you have such a vast wealth
of information, but I thought we'd just try to tie it up
with the notion of parallel universes.
Michio Kaku gets into this in his work,
and we've also spoken with him.
He talks about it on our site,
and the fact that in these parallel universes,
we're not aware of each other.
Can you just talk about what this means
and how we might start becoming aware
and just do a little tie up for us here.
Sure, well with parallel universes,
it depends on what your theory is,
as far as how we might be able to get from here to there.
With a lot of the current string theory models,
as I understand them, these other dimensions are very small.
They roll up into little strings in very small dimensions
and so getting from our dimension to somebody
else's dimension, it's not obvious how you would do that.
But in my model, basically there's a frequency
and a phase that separates one from the other.
In other words, you could think about it is almost
as if just might be able to create a high-frequency field
that changes our rate of vibration,
we could then see into or shift into another dimension.
So those are kind of parallel realities.
They're physical, just like this one,
and it would be a way to connect from one to the other.
At the same time, we have these higher dimensions.
We have the astral domains and the causal domains.
We have ghosts and people who have passed away
who are on the other side and those,
that process is probably different.
I think subtle energy is probably one key
to how we would be able to look into those domains.
There's a scientist in England who has developed
a filter you put on a camera that he claims
allows us to see the etheric dimension,
and he has some good, very interesting results.
They may be working, hard to be sure.
But I think as a first step, we're just learning
that the physical is not all there is.
These other dimensions exist and...
And no one would really say that
on camera even a decade ago persay.
Well like the Hindus have said for thousands of years,
this is maya, this is illusion.
The real stuff's happening at higher dimensions
and if we really learn to take that seriously,
we might lighten up a little bit.
You know, we might not get so hung up on the physical stuff,
and maybe pay a little more attention to the spiritual side.
Absolutely, and for people
to get seriously into this information,
I would certainly recommend that they read
The Synchronized Universe because you've just done
an incredible compilation of work there.
Thank you very much.
And thank you for your time.
For more on these cycles of consciousness,
please watch our interviews with Graham Hancock
and John Major-Jenkins.
To purchase Claude's highly informative
and researched book The Synchronized Universe,
just click on the link below.
Until next time, thanks for watching.